database : 
grouping of collection is database.
A database is an organized collection of structured information, or data, typically stored electronically in a computer system.


 
A database is usually controlled by a database management system (DBMS).
A database management system (DBMS) is a software tool that allows users to manage a database
A DBMS has a backend storage system as well as a front-end user interface. It requires several components to come together



What is difference between SQL and NoSQL database?
SQL databases are relational, and NoSQL databases are non-relational. 

SQL databases use structured query language (SQL) and have a predefined schema. NoSQL databases have dynamic schemas for unstructured data. 

SQL databases are vertically scalable, while NoSQL databases are horizontally scalable.

SQL databases are vertically scalable in most situations. That means you can increase the load on a single server by adding more CPU, RAM, or SSD capacity. NoSQL databases are horizontally scalable. You can handle higher traffic via a process called sharding, which adds more servers to your NoSQL database.




Relational db  
A relational database is a type of database that stores and provides access to data points that are related to one another. 
RDBs are based on the relational model, which is a straightforward way of representing data in tables.


non relational database
A non-relational database is a database that does not use the tabular schema of rows and columns found in most traditional database systems. Instead, non-relational databases use a storage model that is optimized for the specific requirements of the type of data being stored.




normalization : 
Normalization is the process of organizing data in a database. It includes creating tables and establishing relationships between those tables according to rules designed both to protect the data and to make the database more flexible by eliminating redundancy-duplicate and inconsistent dependency


