MongoDb: 
MongoDB is an open-source, document-oriented database that's designed to store and work with large amounts of data. It's categorized as a NoSQL (Not only SQL) database because it doesn't store and retrieve data in the form of tables. Instead, it uses collections and documents, which are made up of key-value pairs

MongoDB is built on a scale-out architecture that has become popular with developers of all kinds for developing scalable applications with evolving data schemas. As a document database, MongoDB makes it easy for developers to store structured or unstructured data. It uses a JSON-like format to store documents.

document in mongoDB :
which is a data structure composed of field and value pairs. MongoDB documents are similar to JSON objects. The values of fields may include other documents, arrays, and arrays of documents.

Collection in mongoDB :
A collection is a grouping of MongoDB documents. Documents within a collection can have different fields. A collection is the equivalent of a table in a relational database system. A collection exists within a database.


What is Aggregation in MongoDB? 
Aggregation is a way of processing a large number of documents in a collection by means of passing them through different stages. The stages make up what is known as a pipeline. The stages in a pipeline can filter, sort, group, reshape and modify documents that pass through the pipeline.


cursor : 
it is just like a pointer which is pointing upon a specific index value.which is returned upon the find method execution



Sharding is a method for distributing data across multiple machines.


1. What are some of the advantages of MongoDB?
MongoDB basically uses JavaScript objects in place of procedures
MongoDB uses a dynamic database schema
MongoDB is very easy to scale up or down



2. What is a Document in MongoDB?
A Document in MongoDB is an ordered set of keys with associated values.

3. Reserved database
admin
local
config


5. What is the Mongo Shell?
It is a JavaScript shell that allows interaction with a MongoDB instance from the command line. 

6. How does Scale-Out occur in MongoDB?
The document-oriented data model of MongoDB makes it easier to split data across multiple servers. Balancing and loading data across a cluster is done by MongoDB


7. What are some features of MongoDB?
Indexing: It supports generic secondary indexes and provides unique, compound, geospatial, and full-text indexing capabilities as well.
Aggregation: It provides an aggregation framework based on the concept of data processing pipelines.
Special collection and index types: It supports time-to-live (TTL) collections for data that should expire at a certain time
File storage: It supports an easy-to-use protocol for storing large files and file metadata.
Sharding: Sharding is the process of splitting data up across machines



8. How to add data in MongoDB?
insertOne()
insertMany()

9. How do you Update a Document?
updateOne()
updateMany()

10. How do you Delete a Document?
deleteOne()
deleteMany()

12. What are the data types in MongoDB?
Null
String
Boolean
Binary data
code
Date
regular expression
array
objectID
embeded documents




Intermediate
2. Explain the term “Indexing” in MongoDB.
In MongoDB, indexes help in efficiently resolving queries. What an Index does is that it stores a small part of the data set in a form that is easy to traverse. The index stores the value of the specific field or set of fields, ordered by the value of the field as specified in the index. 
MongoDB’s indexes work almost identically to typical relational database indexes.


3. What are Geospatial Indexes in MongoDB?
MongoDB has two types of geospatial indexes: 2dsphere and 2d

5. Explain the SET Modifier in MongoDB?
If the value of a field does not yet exist, the "$set" sets the value. This can be useful for updating schemas or adding user-defined keys.



MongoDB Advanced Interview Questions
1. What do you mean by Transactions?
A transaction is a logical unit of processing in a database that includes one or more database operations, which can be read or write operations
Core API
Call back API

2. What are MongoDB Charts?
MongoDB Charts is a new, integrated tool in MongoDB for data visualization

The two different implementations of MongoDB Charts are:

MongoDB Charts PaaS (Platform as a Service)
MongoDB Charts Server